this is another personal curiosity
benchmark we did with the 10 600 K this
time our most recent type of benchmark
content around just wondering what would
happen was the rise in 330 300 X and
3100 when we set higher memory clocks
better memory timings and we also played
around with some of the other settings
specific to the AMD Rison ZP is so for
this one we're taking the 10 600 K and
rather than just doing the simple all
quarto see that we do four reviews as
standard part of the review process
we've also applied a cache overclock and
we've applied that our memory settings
and just put faster memory in in general
to see how it would change the
performance so as of the review which
has all the data you'll need to make
decisions as of the review the 10 600 K
with a simple all core OC of 5.1 ish
gets us to about the performance level
of a 9900 K and most benchmarks and
pretty close to a ten nine hundred K in
some of the other benchmarks depending
what you're looking at so here we're
gonna see how much does just the ring or
the cache overclocked really affect
things also known as encore and then on
top of that tested separately how much
does a cache overclocked plus a memory
overclock and very light memory tuning
affect the total performance of the 10
600 K before that this video is brought
to you by MSI and the Z 490 unify ITX
motherboard for Intel 10 series CPUs the
MSI is e 490 unify ITX board benefits
from a memory layout that makes memory
overclocking easy positioning the board
well for enthusiasts who want to tinker
on a bench or in an ITX system the MSI Z
490 unify runs ninety amplifier stages a
10 layer PCB and seats the memory as
close to the socket as possible all of
which benefit the overclocking
experience learn more at the link in the
description below the most interesting
thing that we discovered in the process
of doing these extra benchmarks was that
we actually found one game where there
is a memory bottleneck not a GPU
bottleneck despite everything being
textbook GPU bottleneck
from that list of results so to keep
this realistic we only spent about an
hour to an hour and a half doing memory
tuning and the overclock settings for
the CPUs that be cache and then all core
and the whole point of this was to keep
it realistic within our own time
constraints with other content but also
to
keep it real Isaac from what users doing
so we will eventually be doing some
liquid-nitrogen overclocking with these
CPUs we normally do but that's not
really what most users end up doing so
this gives you a better look at what's
something reasonable that you can do
when you buy these the CPU and you want
to maybe try and match a ten nine
hundred K and performance but spend half
the money if you're just focusing on
something like gaming or something
that's more bandwidth bound and memory
we're latency bound than it is core or
thread count bound at which point you
would have to go with the higher-end CPU
so we have some experience between
memory tuning we've done a lot of it on
streams but we're far from the likes of
the pros here of overclockers people
like their Bower or build Zoid and so
that puts us maybe in the middle of
where a lot of you might be you might
not have much experience playing around
with any overclocking maybe didn't ever
never have done any liquid nitrogen
overclocking but also below that higher
echelon of overclockers so hopefully we
can provide a unique insight as to
what's realistic for a 24/7 daily use
system with some overclock supplied for
memory we used high-end expensive kit of
g.skill Triton seed royal 4000 megahertz
15 1616 memory and then we did some
extra tuna on top of that but not much
and for our standard benchmarks we use a
3200 set of memory you can look at our
CPU testing methodology for details on
what exactly it is
that's CL 14 so there's only one set of
numbers in all the charts that has this
higher and 4000 megahertz g.skill memory
we lowered the timings successfully to
15 15 15 34 and 4 primary timings and
then we set the refresh cycle to about
280 282 and for active window 228 so
those were the additional settings more
tuning could for sure be done but we
stopped there that was about the one to
one and a half hour mark and then
applied the cache on the all core OC at
that point as for the cash ratio that's
an option you'll see normally in the
extreme tuning page of bios alongside
the core multiplier and for that one we
successfully got it to 48 x and we
tested up to 50 51 but it just wasn't
holding it was blue screen so 48 acts is
where it was reasonable that was with
our existing 5.1 gigahertz all core
overclock on the 10 600 K and that was
while running pretty close to thermal
constraints but not quite there at 1.38
V course
which was about 1.35 the courgette and
so with a 280 m LC LC at max speeds with
one of the better one at the top 280 m
LC LC s on the market the crack in X 62
that's where we kind of were limited by
thermals couldn't really go much further
than that while maintaining 24/7
usability especially in production
applications that are more intensive or
might use a V X so that was the
benchmark settings we went with the
overclocked settings we went with while
maintaining a normal liquid cooling
solution and at this point we can
probably get into the results we'll go
through some games through a couple of
production applications and then talk
about where you should focus your time
if you want to improve the performance
of your 10600 k the first test is the
most interesting because it's one of the
first times we've ever seen a memory
bottleneck in a gaming benchmark we've
seen it before but it's really rare it's
typically the GPU that bottlenecks but
in this instance the highest end Intel
CPUs specifically we're choking on the
memory and these platform doesn't run
into this problem because it doesn't go
as high and framerate and that's
illustrated by the 3300 acts with tuned
memory at 36 66 has it's more limited
Alice prayer first Intel's 10900 k was
previously the chart topper with what
looked like a textbook GPU bottleneck
everything was limited to about 147 to
153 FPS average and so the gains were
limited to the highest on CPUs the 10
600 K with a 48 X ray no C and no memory
change ran at 151 FPS average which is a
three percent gain over the all core 5.1
gigahertz OC with no other changes at
146 FPS average on core alone would be
worth doing
adding the memory tune to that was a
significant boost giving us an
additional 6 percent lead over the 48
axon chord change or a 9 percent lead
over the original 5.1 gigahertz all core
146 FPS average result the 10 600 K with
memory OC is now outperforming even the
10900 K at 5.3 gigahertz all core with
our standard review memory which is
exciting because it shows that we've
found something other than a GPU
bottleneck or wants as for the standard
review memory remember that one of the
reasons we have to use 3200 megahertz is
so that we can keep an identical test
platform across all the CPUs tested at
least back to Rison one since that's the
most relevant but
kind of all the cpu that we'll be
testing regularly we need to go no
higher than thirty two hundred megahertz
for the standard hitman two is another
game that responded somewhat drastically
to CPU performance the stock ten six
hundred K ran at 128 FPS average and the
5 foot 1 gigahertz overclock improved by
5.5 percent to 135 FPS average then
adding the 48 X ring clock improved us
an additional two and a half percent
over the core only OC up to 138 FPS
average at this point the 10 600 K has
tied the ten nine hundred K stock CPU
and has beaten the 99 hundred K at five
point one gigahertz without a nun core
overclock on that one
finally the memory tune got us to 147
FPS average an additional six point four
percent uplift and all of this was less
than an hour to an hour and a half of
testing and validation to get running so
in about an hour you could benefit from
a stock to tuned performance jump of 15%
on the 10 600 K we're now equivalent
with ten nine hundred K with a 5.3
gigahertz all core OC and with the
standard 3200 CL 14 memory that we use
with a stock ring bus shuttle the tomb
raider is next for this one we were GPU
bound at the top end with the 10 900
case stock and OC the equivalents of the
two shows just that and the 10 600 k
heavy tuned couldn't break past it due
to a GPU barrier the stock performance
was 163 FPS average with an OC jump in
2.3 percent to 166 FPS average the rain
overclocked really spurred things up
producing an additional gain to 174 FPS
or 5% on top of the all core only OC and
seven percent total versus stock the low
is also improved here with the total
score reaching equivalents with a 5.1
gigahertz at 9900 k finally our memory
tune boosted us past the 1900 KF 5.1
offering an additional improvement over
the ring OC of only 1% we're now limited
by the GPU so this is about the best at
n 600 K can be expected to do with these
settings in this game and a 2080 ti
everyone 2019 is next which should be
fun for its heavy responsiveness to CPU
changes in general the 10600 k stock CPU
was originally between the 9900 a stock
and 8700 k stock CPUs with the overclock
boosting it from 259 to 267 FPS average
and that's a gain of three point one
percent the
uncor offs that propelled us to 278 FPS
average a 3.9 percent gain over the 5.1
gigahertz OSI with this 5-minute change
we became equivalent to an overclocked
to 9700 K or 9900 K CPU the latter of
which was over $500 retail the 10900 K
5.2 gigahertz result is outmatched by
our memory tune on the 10 600 K
obviously like anything else this is an
arms race that could continue the 10900
K could get the same treatment but the
point is to illustrate just how far you
can push a half cost CPU with about an
hour of work now to be fair the memory
change isn't cheap so you do need to
make up for some of that on the front
end with extra memory cost the 10 600 K
is memory tune performance gains it 4.4
percent over the ring OC at 278 FPS
average or 12 percent versus full stock
1440p with f1 is mostly GPU bad but we
still saw slight improvements at 229 FPS
average for the memory tuned to 27 FPS
average for uncor only and 213 average
at first stock GTA 5 is last giving us a
better look at another frequency
sensitive title from an older class of
games in this one the 10 600 K started
at 114 FPS average about equal to the
9600 case stock and it jumped to
equivalence with the 9900 K and 9700 K
results when at 5.1 gigahertz for the 10
600 K versus the stock CPUs from last
generation if he called that the ring
change boosted it further to 128 FPS
average which is a 5 percent gain over
the 5.1 gigahertz 122 FPS results the
memory tune pushed it to 134 FPS average
about equal with the 1900 K + 10 910
maximum clocks the total top-to-bottom
gain from 114 FPS average to 134 FPS
average is about 17% note that 0.1% lows
took a hit because of one run dropping
the ball hard due to questionable
stability of the overclocked we need to
do further tuning here to improve the
frame time consistency as one run did
have a hitch that lasted about 300
milliseconds which is obviously
experience ruining for that run more
voltage would fix it though blender
isn't very responsive to the changes
these applications could only hold about
5 gigahertz all core in our review as
five-point-one required just enough
voltage to make it impossible or
unreasonable to hold without thermal
throttling on our cooling solution
blender also is
AVX workload which makes it a lot harder
to run the 5.0 gigahertz OC originally
boosted us from 18 point 8 minutes on
our GN monkey head render to 17 minutes
a time reduction of 10% the cache OC
pushed it to sixteen point nine minutes
which is within error and not really
much of a change the memory OC and the
cache OC together pushed us to sixteen
point four minutes which is a reduction
of 3.5% against the stand alone all core
OC of 17 minutes that's not a huge
change but it is measurable and it is a
real one it's just that games benefit
more the GM logo render changed even
less the upload was somewhat meaningful
from stock to OC at 24 minutes versus
21.5 that add up fast if you were
rendering a full animation but the
change to 48 X and 4000 megahertz memory
is nearly zero 7-zip is the last one for
7-zip compression testing the jump from
stock to 5 gigahertz was 54 K MIPS to 58
came EPS while the cache overclocked
improvement was 250 8310 from 50 7812
or less than 1% the memory overclock
gave us another 1.6 percent improvement
so there's really not much impact here
decompression was about the same with
nearly zero impact after the initial all
core OC this bench just really doesn't
benefit from overclocking changes
outside of the core frequency and so
it's really unless you have a specific
production application you know benefits
from a higher memory bandwidth or from
tuning to the cash ratio or anything
else that we've done here this is mostly
a gaming impact that you'll get which
still has a lot of value it's just in a
more limited set of applications so
that's the recap then the biggest
takeaway here is that it's absolutely
worth the 5 minutes or so it takes to
set some kind of rein overclock some
kind of cache overclock so if you're
doing let's say you put the basic time
into get 50 x all core that's stable
everywhere and you might validate that
it's stable by running a longer blender
render or maybe prime95 if you really
hate your computer and it's coin
solution or you could do something in
between but either way run something for
a long period of time that is intensive
on the cpu ideally you do an on a V X
and an AV X test and determine if you
want an AV X offset or not and you go
from there that's the the first major
part of the process but after that it's
definitely worth maybe bringing down the
all core a little bit one tick Jeff so
you don't throw off your stability
testing by having an encore that's too
close to the edge bring it down one tick
or so and then increase the cash and
drive that up to try start with 46 go to
48 and see how how you can get it up and
at that point if it remains stable
you've basically done a couple of
minutes of work with not counting the
stability test with the end result being
at least a 3% 2% uplift versus a
standard all core OC in some of these
games and sometimes you're getting
closer to 10% and then versus full stock
we saw upwards of 17 percent depending
on the game so absolutely worth the time
to do it and good learning experience
anyway and potentially a fun project for
when you have a day off or something as
for the memory that does have a big
uplift and that's part of that 17%
number I just provided but the big
caveat there is that with memory now
you're potentially paying more money
obviously so once you get to the point
where you're paying 100 bucks more for
memory you're kind of approaching just
the better class of CPU like a 10 700 K
and now there's a question as to how
much value does the uplift in the CPU
provide versus the uplift in memory do
you need the better memory anyway for
some other reason so that's a little bit
harder to define just because the cost
starts changing but as far as the rain
and the core you can expect a combined
total somewhere between five and nine
percent uplift typically five to seven
is what we were seeing with the two
together in a gaming application and
then once you throw memory in there you
start going past the 10% barrier but
still under 20% gains so that's what you
can expect for the differences and with
the too broken apart with cache
obviously set-aside is its own
overclocked test
so yeah the 10 600 K if you want our
opinions on it if it's worth it how it
compares versus Rison specifically then
go watch the 10 600 k review we're
keeping this one focused on just these
changes because we just uploaded 30
minutes of content on the 10 600 k so
that's why Rison doesn't get any
mentions in this content because that's
not the focus of it but you can watch
the review if you want to know how rise
and compares to the 10 600 k and how the
price and the value compares and that'll
be it for this one's thanks for watching
go to store documents access net helps
out directly like
according one of our new mouse mats they
sold out basically instantly within 48
hours but they're on backorder or you
can subscribe from where to catch the
next video and we'll see you all next
time
[Music]